# Verbatim Text
## 100 Questions Presentation and Article Discussions
Students will select one question from the Sutherland et al. (2013) paper that presents the 100 fundamental ecological questions. The goal is to essentially assess what is known about the question selected based on peer-reviewed literature search and a short review. Students will report their “state of our knowledge” of the topic in three ways: 1) As a presentation that is approximately 10-12 minutes long at the end of the term; 2) Leading a class discussion focused on a related article; and 3) As a short review paper (see below). The discussions will occur on Thursdays and some Tuesdays lab meetings. Presentations should highlight related examples or counterexamples from peer reviewed literature for a broader perspective and also provide a brief overview of how the topic is related to the student’s thesis research. Discussion papers must be selected and provided to the rest of the class 1 week before the date of the discussion. Please consult with me ahead of time to make sure you pick an appropriate paper. Finally, leaders will prepare several thought provoking questions or statements to stimulate discussion among the class, which will be provided to the class 48-hrs before the discussion so that other members of the course can think about them before we meet.
The 100 question presentation is worth 6% of the total course grade and leading the discussion is worth 4%.  
## 100 Questions Report
The mini-review report will be due on 24 October for peer review in lab and a final version will be turned in to me on 27 October. The length of the paper should be around 6-8 double-spaced pages of text and should review as many papers necessary to provide an adequate synthesis with a minimum of five articles. The final paper is worth 16% of the total course grade. An additional 2% of the total grade is from providing constructive feedback during peer review of one another’s reports.  
## Weekly Article Free Response
In preparation for our weekly discussions of papers selected by discussion leaders, students will submit a free response (1 to 1.5 pages total, 1.5 line space) in lecture, **plus** three questions stemming from the reading. This exercise is intended to prepare each student for engaging in the discussion in class. Free responses are intended to accurately reflect the reader’s interaction with the material (what did you learn?, what did the articles make you think about?, what was clear/confusing?, how are the articles related to topics in lecture or other material we’ve read?) AND briefly summarize the articles. It cannot simply be a summary of the readings. I should see evidence of reflection, serious thought about concepts raised and synthesis with other material. **Students do not submit a free response the week that they lead the discussion AND only need to submit a total of SIX free responses across the quarter.** Please keep track of submitted responses; there will be a lag in reviewing and tabulating each. Free responses are worth 12% of the total course grade. Please submit the free responses as typed hard copies in lecture.

